# Eligibility Engine Search Prototype UI

## Table of Contents

1.  <a href="#product-description" class="tiptap-link" target="_blank"
    rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">Product Description</a>

2.  <a href="#user-searcheligibility-side" class="tiptap-link"
    target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">User
    Search/Eligibility Side</a>

    - <a href="#design-and-theme" class="tiptap-link" target="_blank"
      rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">Design and Theme</a>

    - <a href="#functional-requirements" class="tiptap-link" target="_blank"
      rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">Functional Requirements</a>

3.  <a href="#user-experience-ux" class="tiptap-link" target="_blank"
    rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">User Experience (UX)</a>

4.  <a href="#required-development-stack" class="tiptap-link"
    target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">Required Development
    Stack</a>

5.  <a href="#application-backend-requirements" class="tiptap-link"
    target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">Application Backend
    Requirements</a>

6.  <a href="#explicitly-defined-product-flows" class="tiptap-link"
    target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">Explicitly Defined
    Product Flows</a>

7.  <a href="#explicit-directions-for-ai-generation" class="tiptap-link"
    target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">Explicit Directions
    for AI Generation</a>

8.  <a href="#tech-stack-and-development" class="tiptap-link"
    target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">Tech Stack and
    Development</a>

9.  <a href="#feedback-mechanisms" class="tiptap-link" target="_blank"
    rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">Feedback Mechanisms</a>

10. <a href="#appendix" class="tiptap-link" target="_blank"
    rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">Appendix</a>

## Product Description

The Eligibility Engine Prototype UI is designed to facilitate
interactions between users and the eligibility engine for healthcare
provider profiles. The application has two main sides: the User
Search/Eligibility Side and the Admin Eligibility Setup Engine (this is
referenced in another document). Each side focuses on specific user
interactions, ensuring a comprehensive and efficient user interface.

## User Search/Eligibility Side

### Design and Theme

The project uses the Tailwind CSS framework for a utility-first, modern
design that enhances consistency and development efficiency. Tailwind's
approach allows for rapid and consistent styling across components. The
application's design emphasizes accessibility, including color contrast
and keyboard navigation, to cater to diverse user needs.

Global styles are integrated from theme.css into index.css to ensure a
cohesive theming strategy across the application:

- theme.css **integration:**

This approach streamlines theme management, ensuring that the
application maintains a consistent look and feel across different
components and user interactions.

### Functional Requirements

- **Search Functionalities:** Implement search bars with filtering
  capabilities, allowing users to search for provider profiles using
  NPIs and other criteria. *High Priority* - This functionality is
  critical for user engagement and ensures users can efficiently find
  relevant provider information.

- **Eligibility Status Checks:** Users can initiate eligibility status
  checks on provider profiles. The system will provide detailed results
  and explanations for any ineligibility. *High Priority* - Ensures
  users have access to up-to-date eligibility information, a core
  feature of the application.

- **Profile Viewing Options:** Provide intuitive interfaces for viewing
  provider profiles, ensuring users can easily access all required
  information. *Medium Priority* - Enhances user experience but is
  contingent upon fully operational search functionality.

## User Experience (UX)

Focus on UI/UX design to ensure seamless interaction, making the search
and eligibility checking process intuitive and efficient. Emphasis on
accessibility and mobile responsiveness ensures broad usability,
accommodating the application to users with varying needs.

1.  Login

2.  Search with an NPI

3.  See the eligibility result

## Required Development Stack

The prototype will be built using React with the Typescript template for
a full-stack application, incorporating frontend and API
functionalities. This allows seamless server-side and client-side
rendering integration, enhancing performance and user experience.

## Explicitly Defined Product Flows

- **User Registration and Login:** Secure registration and login to
  personalize settings and data access.

- **Eligibility Check:** Users can check provider eligibility statuses
  with detailed feedback.

- **Status Interpretation:** Clearly presents eligibility results with
  contextual explanations.

## Explicit Directions for AI Generation

Focus AI code generation on creating components to enhance user
experience, including responsive design elements, robust search
functionalities, and automated testing scripts. Incorporate best
practices for accessibility and mobile responsiveness to ensure
usability across all platforms. Reference the user experience section.

## Feedback Mechanisms - future implementation

Define feedback loops for user testing phases covering how feedback will
be gathered, analyzed, and actioned:

- **Gathering User Feedback:** Utilize surveys and in-app feedback tools
  to continuously collect user insights.

- **Utilization of Feedback:** Implement a cycle of review and
  refinement based on received feedback to continually improve UI
  components and overall user experience.

## Appendix (to be completed)

1.  **Design and Development Best Practices:**

    - **Component Design:** Guidelines on building reusable React
      components, leveraging Tailwind CSS effectively.

    - **Responsive Design:** Strategies for ensuring responsiveness
      across devices, including examples and common media queries.

    - **Code Quality:** Standards for code readability and
      maintainability, such as ESLint or Prettier configurations.

2.  **Accessibility Best Practices:**

    - **Approach and Standards:** Outline accessibility standards (like
      WCAG) to adhere to when designing UI.

    - **Testing Tools:** Recommended tools for testing accessibility,
      such as Axe or Lighthouse.

3.  **Testing and Quality Assurance:**

    - **Unit Testing:** Instructions and examples on how to write
      effective unit tests using a framework like Jest.

    - **End-to-End Testing:** Guidelines for end-to-end testing,
      possibly including tools like Cypress or Selenium.

4.  **Deployment and Environment Setup:**

    - **Environment Configuration:** Templates for environment variables
      and configuration settings needed in different environments (e.g.,
      development, staging, production).

    - **CI/CD Pipelines:** Best practices for setting up continuous
      integration and deployment pipelines, ensuring smooth transitions
      from code to production.

5.  **Documentation and Communication:**

    - **Technical Documentation:** Best practices for updating and
      maintaining technical documentation for all code changes.

    - **Meetings and Feedback:** Guidelines for conducting effective
      development meetings and leveraging feedback.

6.  **Security Protocols:**

    - **Code Security:** Best practices for secure coding, like using
      dependency checks.

    - **Data Protection:** Strategies for data privacy and security,
      particularly important in handling healthcare data.

7.  **Reference Materials:**

    - **Links and Documentation:** Include any links or documentation to
      resources like Tailwind Update Notes, React Best Practices,
      troubleshooting FAQs, etc.
